# MSc_Dissertation_Project
## Project Overview
This project is about comparative analysis of different commonly used classifiers for customer churn prediction in banking industries.
### Background
The growth of any organization depends upon their customer base. Organizations are aware of this fact that to sustain and grow in a competitive market they need to focus on customer and their needs. Every organization have a customer relationship management (CRM) team which solely focus on the customer satisfaction and to develop strategies to retain and grow their customer base. Churn is when an existing customer of a company refuse to use the product and services of the company and switch to a different company for their needs. In banking industry prospective, when an existing customer closes all the bank accounts and stops doing banking with the current bank in a given time period. Though the churn rate is low in banking industry, but the losses occurred due to the churn is huge. Banking industry product and services are limited. Most of the customers do not change banks frequently, so most of the profit drives from the existing customers. Existing customers are more likely to avail other new experimental services provided by the bank that will again add to the profit and growth. Having a loyal customer base add advantages to the reputation of the bank which will again attract more new customers. So, it is very crucial for the bank to set up strong customer retention plan and avoid customer churn.

### Dataset
The dataset considered for this experiment contains 10000 records of customers data of a retail bank. The dataset consists of 13 features variable and one target variable.The dataset contains customer demographics data, geographic data, and account related data. The dataset can be found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/mathchi/churn-for-bank-customers?select=churn.csv).

